website/docs/business-manager-flow.md, before:

---
id: business-manager-flow
title: Business-Manager Flow
sidebar_label: Business-Manager Flow
---

> 🧪 Experimental

## Overview

The Business-Manager is Wix's backoffice platform.
For more information on the platform, see the [official docs](https://github.com/wix-private/business-manager/).

Yoshi's Business-Manager Flow eases the development process of Business-Manager applications by reducing boilerplate, automating common tasks and solving infrastructure and runtime problems in a single place.

Inspired by [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/#file-system-routing) It requires the developer to create a specific file structure and can statically analyze it to provide features like file system routing, auto generation of module config and more.

## Concepts

### Module Bundle

BM Flow auto-generates a module bundle file for you, which will automatically register the necessary pages & public API for your application at runtime.

### Pages

Adding Page Components to your application is as simple as creating a new file somewhere in the special `src/pages` directory:

```typescript jsx
// src/pages/index.tsx

export default () => {
  useEffect(() => {
    notifyViewFinishedLoading("<YOUR_PAGE_COMPONENT_NAME>");
  }, []);

  return <Page>...</Page>;
};
```

#### Route

The pages' route will be determined by the page file's path relative to the root `src/pages` directory, prefixed with the [`routeNamespace` config option](#routenamespace).
For example:

| Path                    | Route      |
| ----------------------- | ---------- |
| `src/pages/index.tsx`   | `/`        |
| `src/pages/foo.tsx`     | `/foo`     |
| `src/pages/foo/bar.tsx` | `/foo/bar` |

### Exported Components

Similar to [pages](#pages), exposing components from your Business-Manager module is done by creating a new file in the special `src/exported-components` directory:

```typescript jsx
// src/exported-components/shared-modal.tsx

export default () => {
  return <Modal>...</Modal>;
};
```

### Methods

Exposing methods from your Business-Manager module is done by creating files in the special `src/methods` directory:

```typescript
// src/methods/some-method.ts

export default () => {
  // Do plenty of things
};
```

## Initial Setup

Run `EXPERIMENTAL_FLOW_BM=true npx create-yoshi-app` & choose template `flow-bm`.

This will bootstrap a new Business-Manager application, along with a single (root) page.

## Development

Run `npx yoshi-bm start` to start your Business-Manager application.
This serves your module bundles on http://localhost:3200.
By default, `yoshi-bm start` tries to open the BM testkit:

```
http://localhost:5000/business-manager/<RANDOM_METASITEID>/<YOUR_ROUTE>
```

To override this, pass `--url`, for example: `npx yoshi-bm start --url http://localhost:3000`.

> In the future, your application will be launched pre-configured in production Business-Manager automatically.

## Deployment

Run `npx yoshi-bm build` to build your Business-Manager application.
This builds your module bundle and generates a working `module_MODULE_ID.json` file in your `target` directory, for your [integration with Business-Manager](https://github.com/wix-private/business-manager/blob/master/business-manager-web/docs/module-config-file.md).

## Testing

Run `npx yoshi-bm test` to run your tests with the configured test runner (Jest by default). Pass `--watch` to start it in watch mode.

## Configuration

### Module-level Configuration

The following configurations are available by creating a `.module.json` file:

```json
{
  "moduleId": "my-module",
  "moduleBundleName": "my-entry",
  "routeNamespace": "my-route",
  "topology": {
    "someArtifactsUrl": {
      "artifactId": "com.wixpress.some-artifact"
    }
  }
}
```

---

#### `moduleId`

Use this to override your `moduleId`.
Defaults to your `artifactId` (taken from `pom.xml`).

#### `moduleBundleName`

Use this to change the module bundle's name.
Defaults to `'module'` (which will output `module.bundle.js` & `module.bundle.min.js`).

#### `routeNamespace`

This prefixes all your pages with the given string.
Defaults to `''`.

For example, given `"routeNamespace": "foo"`, the following pages will configured as such:

| Path                    | Route          |
| ----------------------- | -------------- |
| `src/pages/index.tsx`   | `/foo`         |
| `src/pages/bar.tsx`     | `/foo/bar`     |
| `src/pages/bar/baz.tsx` | `/foo/bar/baz` |

#### `topology`

Sets your application's topology template. Defaults to:

```json
{
  "staticsUrl": {
    "artifactId": "<YOUR_ARTIFACT_ID>"
  }
}
```

### Page-level Configuration

Pages can be customized by adding a `*.json` file with the same name as the appropriate page.
For example, the `src/pages/some-route.tsx` file, will be configured by `src/pages/some-route.json`:

```json
{
  "componentId": "some-component-id",
  "componentName": "some-component-name"
}
```

#### `page.componentId`

Sets the page's `componentId`. Defaults to `<MODULE_ID>.pages.<FILE_NAME>`.

#### `page.componentName`

Sets the page's `componentName`. Defaults to `<MODULE_ID>.pages.<FILE_NAME>`.

### Exported Component-level Configuration

Exported components can be customized by adding a `*.json` file with the same name as the appropriate component file.
For example, the `src/exported-components/some-component.tsx` file, will be configured by `src/exported-components/some-component.json`:

```json
{
  "componentId": "some-component-id"
}
```

#### `exported-component.componentId`

Sets the component's `componentId`. Defaults to `<MODULE_ID>.components.<FILE_NAME>`.

### Method-level Configuration

Methods can be customized by adding a `*.json` file with the same name as the appropriate method file.
For example, the `src/methods/some-method.ts` file, will be configured by `src/methods/some-method.json`:

```json
{
  "methodId": "some-method-id"
}
```

#### `method.methodId`

Sets the method's `methodId`. Defaults to `<MODULE_ID>.methods.<FILE_NAME>`.

### Run code in BM's `init()` phase

Create a file `src/moduleInit.{ts,js}`, for example:

```typescript
export default () => {
  configModule("<YOUR_MODULE_ID>", "<SOME_MODULE>", {
    /* ... */
  });
};
```

More info [here](https://github.com/wix-private/business-manager/blob/master/business-manager-api/docs/business-manager-module.md#init).

Commit message:

Open production BM on `yoshi-bm start` (#2418)

website/docs/business-manager-flow.md, after:

---
id: business-manager-flow
title: Business-Manager Flow
sidebar_label: Business-Manager Flow
---

> 🧪 Experimental

## Overview

The Business-Manager is Wix's backoffice platform.
For more information on the platform, see the [official docs](https://github.com/wix-private/business-manager/).

Yoshi's Business-Manager Flow eases the development process of Business-Manager applications by reducing boilerplate, automating common tasks and solving infrastructure and runtime problems in a single place.

Inspired by [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/#file-system-routing) It requires the developer to create a specific file structure and can statically analyze it to provide features like file system routing, auto generation of module config and more.

## Concepts

### Module Bundle

BM Flow auto-generates a module bundle file for you, which will automatically register the necessary pages & public API for your application at runtime.

### Pages

Adding Page Components to your application is as simple as creating a new file somewhere in the special `src/pages` directory:

```typescript jsx
// src/pages/index.tsx

export default () => {
  useEffect(() => {
    notifyViewFinishedLoading("<YOUR_PAGE_COMPONENT_NAME>");
  }, []);

  return <Page>...</Page>;
};
```

#### Route

The pages' route will be determined by the page file's path relative to the root `src/pages` directory, prefixed with the [`routeNamespace` config option](#routenamespace).
For example:

| Path                    | Route      |
| ----------------------- | ---------- |
| `src/pages/index.tsx`   | `/`        |
| `src/pages/foo.tsx`     | `/foo`     |
| `src/pages/foo/bar.tsx` | `/foo/bar` |

### Exported Components

Similar to [pages](#pages), exposing components from your Business-Manager module is done by creating a new file in the special `src/exported-components` directory:

```typescript jsx
// src/exported-components/shared-modal.tsx

export default () => {
  return <Modal>...</Modal>;
};
```

### Methods

Exposing methods from your Business-Manager module is done by creating files in the special `src/methods` directory:

```typescript
// src/methods/some-method.ts

export default () => {
  // Do plenty of things
};
```

## Initial Setup

Run `EXPERIMENTAL_FLOW_BM=true npx create-yoshi-app` & choose template `flow-bm`.

This will bootstrap a new Business-Manager application, along with a single (root) page.

## Development

Run `npx yoshi-bm start` to start your Business-Manager application.
This serves your application's statics and opens up production Business-Manager, pre-configured with the needed overrides.

> To override this, pass `--url`, for example: `npx yoshi-bm start --url http://localhost:3000`.

## Deployment

Run `npx yoshi-bm build` to build your Business-Manager application.
This builds your module bundle and generates a working `module_MODULE_ID.json` file in your `target` directory, for your [integration with Business-Manager](https://github.com/wix-private/business-manager/blob/master/business-manager-web/docs/module-config-file.md).

## Testing

Run `npx yoshi-bm test` to run your tests with the configured test runner (Jest by default). Pass `--watch` to start it in watch mode.

## Configuration

### Module-level Configuration

The following configurations are available by creating a `.module.json` file:

```json
{
  "moduleId": "my-module",
  "moduleBundleName": "my-entry",
  "routeNamespace": "my-route",
  "topology": {
    "someArtifactsUrl": {
      "artifactId": "com.wixpress.some-artifact"
    }
  }
}
```

---

#### `moduleId`

Use this to override your `moduleId`.
Defaults to your `artifactId` (taken from `pom.xml`).

#### `moduleBundleName`

Use this to change the module bundle's name.
Defaults to `'module'` (which will output `module.bundle.js` & `module.bundle.min.js`).

#### `routeNamespace`

This prefixes all your pages with the given string.
Defaults to `''`.

For example, given `"routeNamespace": "foo"`, the following pages will configured as such:

| Path                    | Route          |
| ----------------------- | -------------- |
| `src/pages/index.tsx`   | `/foo`         |
| `src/pages/bar.tsx`     | `/foo/bar`     |
| `src/pages/bar/baz.tsx` | `/foo/bar/baz` |

#### `topology`

Sets your application's topology template. Defaults to:

```json
{
  "staticsUrl": {
    "artifactId": "<YOUR_ARTIFACT_ID>"
  }
}
```

### Page-level Configuration

Pages can be customized by adding a `*.json` file with the same name as the appropriate page.
For example, the `src/pages/some-route.tsx` file, will be configured by `src/pages/some-route.json`:

```json
{
  "componentId": "some-component-id",
  "componentName": "some-component-name"
}
```

#### `page.componentId`

Sets the page's `componentId`. Defaults to `<MODULE_ID>.pages.<FILE_NAME>`.

#### `page.componentName`

Sets the page's `componentName`. Defaults to `<MODULE_ID>.pages.<FILE_NAME>`.

### Exported Component-level Configuration

Exported components can be customized by adding a `*.json` file with the same name as the appropriate component file.
For example, the `src/exported-components/some-component.tsx` file, will be configured by `src/exported-components/some-component.json`:

```json
{
  "componentId": "some-component-id"
}
```

#### `exported-component.componentId`

Sets the component's `componentId`. Defaults to `<MODULE_ID>.components.<FILE_NAME>`.

### Method-level Configuration

Methods can be customized by adding a `*.json` file with the same name as the appropriate method file.
For example, the `src/methods/some-method.ts` file, will be configured by `src/methods/some-method.json`:

```json
{
  "methodId": "some-method-id"
}
```

#### `method.methodId`

Sets the method's `methodId`. Defaults to `<MODULE_ID>.methods.<FILE_NAME>`.

### Run code in BM's `init()` phase

Create a file `src/moduleInit.{ts,js}`, for example:

```typescript
export default () => {
  configModule("<YOUR_MODULE_ID>", "<SOME_MODULE>", {
    /* ... */
  });
};
```

More info [here](https://github.com/wix-private/business-manager/blob/master/business-manager-api/docs/business-manager-module.md#init).
